In this lecture I'm going to talk about colorful three which is an interesting technique in computer
vision and image process.
Consider the following image where we have a tennis ball that you would like to detect inside the image.
It is clear that the tennis ball has a very specific color in the image which is different from the
colors of the other pixels.
So we can use the color feature of the tennis ball in order to detect its location inside the image.
And for this we can use color filtering techniques.
So colorful theory is defined as displaying only a specific color in the image and it is used in wide
range of computer vision applications especially for detecting objects with specific colors.
The algorithms is composed of four steps.
First within the image as an object color image and then we convert the image into the HSV color space
and you can see why it is more suitable for these type of applications.
And then when you find the upper and lower ranges of the color of interest.
And finally we create a mask based on the color ranges applied to that age as the image form.
So let's see how it works in practice.
So now this is the code of color filtering.
First of all we open an image using Siri to add imagery and then we access one of the images in the
images for that.
So we started this one.
But also we can later on tape on different ends.
So here we're going to show the original images and the code to so this is the original image.
And as I mentioned in the introduction the first thing we need to do is to convert the image into the
situation but it is equal space.
So the point bird image which is the color space and do so revues so I'm going to create a new object
called HSV silly to convert the color within the image.
Then you don't color BGR too much history and let us show the image.
OK so this is how it looks like at this stage you may wonder why we need to make the conversion.
OK so let me first explain.
So our problem is to the image for using its color and the color is yellow.
The problem with actually color space is that it is not close to the word external lighting changes
and this is why we prefer to use it as the color space instead of the color.
Just to illustrate the problem that's causing the rescript with different red colors.
So the colors if we use the space do we have completely different values.
So it's going to be very difficult to find a range of real violence to which we are going to use the
filter of the colors.
However using the color space we know that all the red values are ranging between 0 and 60 degrees.
OK so this is now the representation of it is the color space which looks like a cone.
So we have here the circle represent the value and it ranges from zero to three 60 degrees.
OK so the balance between 0 and 60 that corresponds to the red.
So you can see now the rates start from zero and then it moves.
And then the value of 60 begins at 60 degrees we start to have the yellow.
This this is the part of the yellow here.
Then we move at one hundred twenty we start to have the green color case of the green color is between
one twenty and one eighty twenty eight you start to have the same color which is this one.
And then the blue and then the magenta So all the circle here it represent the colors.
And this is very useful if we want to filter out certain colors.
For example if we want to just have the euro we can have a mask applied to the of 60 and 120 for example.
OK if we want to filter red values we can use between 0 and 60.
So you can see the edge as we call the space allow us to clearly define about for any kind of colors
and the axes they represent the situation and the pattern.
So you can think about the situation as the amount of shade or the gray color that you do have color.
So you can see when me move in this direction we have more saturated colors and the value it represent
the level of brightness and this blue line is usually they are caught in between zero and 100 as a percentage.
So 0 percent it means there is no saturation and 100 percent means it's completely saturated and zero
it means very dark.
So it's black 1 and 100.
We represent the very bright pixels.
So as such that is the color space is much more suitable than the actually colored space in our two
or four color three because the color balance well defined.
Now there's one note that you have to consider when we work with HSV colors face.
We all can see is that it uses different ranges for the color space.
So the cleanest light I have muscles that they do is encoded between 0 and 360 degrees but oppositely
just encode the values between 0 and 1 8.
So in this case we need to define every range by two.
So this means that the red color will be defined in open city between 0 and 30 and the yellow color
will be defined between 30 and 120.
And so the situation and the values are not included as a percentage like it is in the standard representation
but they are important as values between 0 and 2 0.
It means great for saturation and to 55.
It means a saturated color and the value 0 means dark color and 2:55 means bright color.
So this is the convention that is being used in open city and you will be using it not to define the
upper range in the lower range of our desires.
So looking at our problem now we would like to detect a tennis ball and a tennis ball has the yellow
color.
So now we need actually to select the color space in the h is v format that specifies the color.
Now based on the statement the value should be between 60 and 120.
Considering the complexity of this even the is encoded between 0 and 1 80.
In this case we need to divide this by two so it will be defined between 30 and 60 degrees up in C..
So let's see how it works.
Nobody understood why we need to use h.
It's v format.
What color direction.
Let's now define the upper bound and a lower bound for the yellow color that we would like to filter
into an image.
Now we'll find the upper and lower box of the yellow color.
OK for this what.
So let us define the yellow lower color.
So remember in the standard representation of the edge as we format the yellow bound is between 60 and
120.
And since we work with others.
So we need to divide this value by two.
So it's going to be between 30 as the lower value and providing be 60.
Now we need to define the situation and the brightness of the lower bound.
And so the general rule here is that we need to choose low values for situation and put the brightness
the lower bound and higher values saturation and the brightness for the upper body.
So you know we can choose.
There is no actually a rule to follow.
But it's kind of right and check operation.
So we're going to just propose somebody and then it doesn't work fine.
We can cure them so that the color filtering will be as much as possible.
So let's choose the maximum values for the situation and for the brightness in the upper bound.
Now we need to use the HSV imaging format and the no upper bound not to define a mask so completely
fine mask using the lower and upper bounds of yellow color.
How can you do that.
You can define the image mask and use the method to do it in range.
It takes as parameter.
The H is v image and then the lower bound and the upper.
OK so finally everything is done.
We can just now print the mask using Sevigny Look I am showing with the mask as usual reducing it to
the weight of zero.
You don't destroy all windows at the plastic OK that's pretty much it.
Now we're going to apply this.
I would get in on that one which is this one.
And you will see three images.
The original image the HSP image and the mask image.
So what we expect to have is that the mask must show the yellow color as white and any different color
as a black color.
So that's sort of the application now.
Now we have three images as you can see this is the original image.
This is the h is the image.
And this is the mask image.
You can see everything you can see here a little bit of you know values similar to the body.
So maybe we can remove them by just playing with the situation and the brightness.
Let's do some work here.
For example maybe we can use higher saturation and the higher brightness
you can see now the book almost looks to be that we don't have these days is not because of these colors
here we'll have something similar to the yellow but a lower brightness and lower saturation will also
be selling us.
Also try some other images so you can see here now you have the box selected but also because some other
places also have some kind of green color.
So maybe we can actually improve this by reducing the value of the you in the upper about gays or something.
If a tree is designed to be 50 on the
still have bottoms.
OK so we did something.
In any case we can choose also some of the images you see in the performance of other images.
So you can see just this place.
Maybe we can play with the situation to improve the performance.
We can try on that image work also.
OK.
Here we have a very nice action because we have the other well specific in this thread the last image.
It also works pretty much.
So you can see the performance will depend on the lighting conditions.
But it's almost by the way.
So we had a light on five images one of them had a very good performance.
So many imagery can actually turn a little bit more the upper and lower bounds in order to improve the
accuracy of the action.
So in this video we have to use the color filtering technique that allows to select a particular color
in the image.
This technique is used to action when the object has a specific color in the image.
It would be even nicer and more interesting if you are able to draw a circle around the ball in the
mask image so as to identify it according to the image.
And for this we need to do contouring action which is going to be explained in the next video.